golden/go/expectations/fs_expectationstore/FIRESTORE.md, before:

Storing Expectations in Firestore
=================================

Gold Expectations are essentially a map of (Grouping, Digest) to Label where Grouping is
currently TestName (but could be a combination of TestName + ColorSpace or something
more complex), Digest is the md5 hash of an image's content, and Label is Positive, Negative,
or Untriaged (default).

These Triples are stored in a large map of maps, i.e. map[string]map[string]int. This is
encapsulated by the type Expectations. If a given (Grouping, Digest) doesn't have a label,
it is assumed to be Untriaged.

There is the idea of the MasterExpectations, which is the Expectations belonging to the
git branch "master". Additionally, there can be smaller CLExpectations that belong
to a ChangeList (CL) and stay separate from the MasterExpectations until the CL lands.
These CLExpectations are the "delta" compared to the MasterExpectations.

We'd like to be able to do the following:

  - Store and retrieve Expectations (both MasterExpectations and CLExpectations).
  - Update the Label for a (Grouping, Digest).
  - Keep an audit record of what user updated the Label for a given (Grouping, Digest).
  - Undo a previous change.
  - Support Gerrit CLs and GitHub PullRequests (PRs)

Schema
------

In the spreadsheet metaphor, Firestore Collections are _tables_ and Documents
are the _rows_, with the fields of the Documents being the columns.

Like all other projects, we will use the firestore.NewClient to create a top level
"gold" Collection with a parent Document for this instance (e.g. "skia-prod", "flutter", etc).
Underneath that parent Document, we will create a three Collections:
`expectations`, `triage_records`, and `triage_changes`.

In the `expectations` Collection, we will store many `expectationEntry` Documents with
the following schema:

	Grouping       string    # starting as the TestName
	Digest         string
	Label          int
	Updated        time.Time
	CRSAndCLID     string     # "" for master branch, otherwise CRS + "_" + clID

The `expectationEntry` will have an ID of `[grouping]|[digest]`, allowing updates.

The `triage_records` Collection will have `triageRecords` Documents:

	ID           string    # autogenerated
	UserName     string
	TS           time.Time
	CRSAndCLID   string    # "" for master branch, otherwise CRS + "_" + clID
	Committed    bool      # if writing has completed (e.g. large triage)
	Changes      int       # how many records match in triage_changes Collection

The `triage_changes` Collection will have `triageChanges` Documents:

	RecordID       string # From the triage_records table
	Grouping       string
	Digest         string
	LabelBefore    int
	LabelAfter     int

The vast majority of LabelAfter will be Positive, with some Negatives and a rare
Untriaged (in the case of an undo).

We split the triage data into two tables to account for the fact that bulk triages can sometimes be
across thousands of groups/digests, which would surpass the 10Mb firestore limit per Document.

Indexing
--------
Firebase has pretty generous indexing limits, so we should be fine with the default single-field
indexes. In addition, we need the following composite indexes:

Collection ID              | Fields
------------------------------------------------------------------
expstore_expectations_v2   | crs_cl_id: ASC digest: ASC
expstore_triage_changes_v2 | record_id: ASC grouping: ASC digest: ASC
expstore_triage_records_v2 | committed: ASC crs_cl_id: ASC ts: DESC

Usage
-----

To create the MasterExpectations map we create a QuerySnapshotIterator on `expectationEntry`
Documents with CRSAndCLID=="" and assemble the initial load together. This is kept in RAM
for returning to clients.

For performance, we shard fetching the expectations based on digest, since that data
is essentially random and evenly distributed.

CLExpectations will have their changed Expectations (essentially their delta from the
MasterExpectations) stored in the `expectations` Collection with nonempty
CRSAndCLID fields. When the tryjob monitor notes that a CL has landed, it can add the
CLExpectations to the master branch.

Storing the data as above yields for trivial triage log fetching:

	q := client.Collection("triage_records").OrderBy("Updated").Limit(N).Offset(M)
	firestore.IterDocs("", "", q, 3, 5*time.Second, ...)

To undo, we can query the original change by id (from the `triage_records` Collection)
and simply apply the opposite of it, if the current state matches the labelBefore
(otherwise, do nothing, because either it has been changed again or already undone).

Growth Opportunities
-------------------

The design should be open to future changes, for example:

  1. Specifying a maximum age of an expectation. e.g. Forget about positive digests not seen for
    a year, forget about negative digests not seen for 6 months.
  2. Add in the ability to say *why* something was marked negative.

For item #1, the schema could be augmented with a "last seen on" timestamp that is written to
once per day or so in a batch write. Note: to not overly tax the indexes, the last seen
timestamps should all be the same for each batch write.

The schema could be augmented for #2 with additional fields in the `expectations` and
`triage_changes` Collections and some UI support.

Commit message:

[gold] Make fs_expstore support cleanup
Change-Id: I35ca916f46f60565114e6192c226827037bfe3c1
Bug: skia:9318
Bug: skia:5071
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/270778
Reviewed-by: Leandro Lovisolo <lovisolo@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Kevin Lubick <kjlubick@google.com>

golden/go/expectations/fs_expectationstore/FIRESTORE.md, after:

Storing Expectations in Firestore
=================================

Gold Expectations are essentially a map of (Grouping, Digest) to Label where Grouping is
currently TestName (but could be a combination of TestName + ColorSpace or something
more complex), Digest is the md5 hash of an image's content, and Label is Positive, Negative,
or Untriaged (default).

These Triples are stored in a large map of maps, i.e. map[string]map[string]int. This is
encapsulated by the type Expectations. If a given (Grouping, Digest) doesn't have a label,
it is assumed to be Untriaged.

There is the idea of the MasterExpectations, which is the Expectations belonging to the
git branch "master". Additionally, there can be smaller CLExpectations that belong
to a ChangeList (CL) and stay separate from the MasterExpectations until the CL lands.
These CLExpectations are the "delta" compared to the MasterExpectations.

We'd like to be able to do the following:

  - Store and retrieve Expectations (both MasterExpectations and CLExpectations).
  - Update the Label for a (Grouping, Digest).
  - Keep an audit record of what user updated the Label for a given (Grouping, Digest).
  - Undo a previous change.
  - Support Gerrit CLs and GitHub PullRequests (PRs)

Schema
------

In the spreadsheet metaphor, Firestore Collections are _tables_ and Documents
are the _rows_, with the fields of the Documents being the columns.

Like all other projects, we will use the firestore.NewClient to create a top level
"gold" Collection with a parent Document for this instance (e.g. "skia-prod", "flutter", etc).
Underneath that parent Document, we will create a three Collections:
`expectations`, `triage_records`, and `triage_changes`.

In the `expectations` Collection, we will store many `expectationEntry` Documents with
the following schema:

	Grouping       string    # starting as the TestName
	Digest         string
	Label          int
	Updated        time.Time
	CRSAndCLID     string     # "" for master branch, otherwise CRS + "_" + clID
	LastUsed       time.Time  # used to clean up unused expectations.

The `expectationEntry` will have an ID of `[grouping]|[digest]`, allowing updates.

The `triage_records` Collection will have `triageRecords` Documents:

	ID           string    # autogenerated
	UserName     string
	TS           time.Time
	CRSAndCLID   string    # "" for master branch, otherwise CRS + "_" + clID
	Committed    bool      # if writing has completed (e.g. large triage)
	Changes      int       # how many records match in triage_changes Collection

The `triage_changes` Collection will have `triageChanges` Documents:

	RecordID       string # From the triage_records table
	Grouping       string
	Digest         string
	LabelBefore    int
	LabelAfter     int

The vast majority of LabelAfter will be Positive, with some Negatives and a rare
Untriaged (in the case of an undo).

We split the triage data into two tables to account for the fact that bulk triages can sometimes be
across thousands of groups/digests, which would surpass the 10Mb firestore limit per Document.

Indexing
--------
Firebase has pretty generous indexing limits, so we should be fine with the default single-field
indexes. In addition, we need the following composite indexes:

Collection ID              | Fields
------------------------------------------------------------------
expstore_expectations_v2   | crs_cl_id: ASC digest: ASC
expstore_expectations_v2   | label: ASC last_used: ASC
expstore_expectations_v2   | label: ASC updated: ASC # this will go away, see MarkUnusedEntriesForGC
expstore_triage_changes_v2 | record_id: ASC grouping: ASC digest: ASC
expstore_triage_records_v2 | committed: ASC crs_cl_id: ASC ts: DESC

Usage
-----

To create the MasterExpectations map we create a QuerySnapshotIterator on `expectationEntry`
Documents with CRSAndCLID=="" and assemble the initial load together. This is kept in RAM
for returning to clients.

For performance, we shard fetching the expectations based on digest, since that data
is essentially random and evenly distributed.

CLExpectations will have their changed Expectations (essentially their delta from the
MasterExpectations) stored in the `expectations` Collection with nonempty
CRSAndCLID fields. When the tryjob monitor notes that a CL has landed, it can add the
CLExpectations to the master branch.

Storing the data as above yields for trivial triage log fetching:

	q := client.Collection("triage_records").OrderBy("Updated").Limit(N).Offset(M)
	firestore.IterDocs("", "", q, 3, 5*time.Second, ...)

To undo, we can query the original change by id (from the `triage_records` Collection)
and simply apply the opposite of it, if the current state matches the labelBefore
(otherwise, do nothing, because either it has been changed again or already undone).

To cleanup old expectations, a process calls UpdateLastUsed, which updates the `last_used` field.
That same process then calls MarkUnusedEntriesForGC, which sets the `label` to untriaged for all
`expectationEntry` documents which have a `last_used` and `updated` field before the given time.
(This action shows up in the triage log).

Untriaged entries do not need to stay in the DB, due to the fact that expectations for a digest
default to Untriaged. As such, GarbageCollect deletes all `expectationEntry` documents
which have a `label` of untriaged.
