BAZEL_CHEATSHEET.md, before:

# Bazel cheatsheet

This cheatsheet provides quick tips on how to build and test code in our repository using Bazel.

Start [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/4.1.0/bazel-overview.html) if you're completely new
to Bazel.

The reference documentation for our Bazel build can be found at the following Golinks:

 - [go/skia-infra-bazel](http://go/skia-infra-bazel)
 - [go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend)
 - [go/skia-infra-bazel-backend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-backend)

## Initial setup

This section includes steps every engineer should follow to get a consistent development
experience.

### Install Bazelisk

[Bazelisk](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazelisk) is a wrapper for Bazel that downloads and runs
the version of Bazel specified in `//.bazelversion`. It serves a similar purpose as
[nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for NodeJS.

Bazelisk is recommended over plain Bazel because the `bazel` command on our gLinux workstations is
automatically updated every time a new version of Bazel is released.

The easiest way to install Bazelisk is via `npm`, e.g.:

```
npm install -g @bazel/bazelisk
```

Tips:

 - Make a Bash alias with `alias bazel="bazelisk"` and add it to your `~/.bash_aliases` file.
 - Set the full path to `bazel` to be the full path to `bazelisk` in your IDE of choice. This is
   necessary for some extensions to work correctly, such as the
   [Bazel plugin for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=BazelBuild.vscode-bazel).

### Get your RBE credentials

These steps are necessary for the `--config=remote` flag to work on a gLinux workstation.

First, create service account under the `skia-public` GCP project, if you don't have one already:

```
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create somegoogler-rbe \
      --description "somegoogler's RBE service account" \
      --project skia-public
```

Next, grant your service account the
[Remote Build Execution Artifact Creator](https://cloud.google.com/remote-build-execution/docs/access-control#granting_the_ability_to_run_builds_remotely)
role under the `skia-infra-rbe` GCP project, which is where our
[RBE instance](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/apis/api/remotebuildexecution.googleapis.com/overview?project=skia-infra-rbe)
lives:

```
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding skia-infra-rbe \
      --role roles/remotebuildexecution.artifactCreator \
      --member serviceAccount:somegoogler-rbe@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

Then, create a JSON service account key:

```
$ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create path/to/somegoogler-rbe.json \
      --project skia-infra \
      --iam-account somegoogler-rbe@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

Finally, create a `.bazelrc` file in your home directory with the following contents:

```
build:remote --google_credentials=path/to/somegoogler-rbe.json
```

Note that service account keys expire after 3 months, so you might have to repeat this step if you
run into permission issues.

To verify your setup, run a remote build:

```
$ bazel build //... --config=remote
```

Note that your service account will be set up with read-only access to the RBE remote cache
(rationale [here](#building-and-testing-on-rbe)). Do not be alarmed if you see
`Writing to Remote Cache: PERMISSION_DENIED` warnings when building from a developer workstation
with `--config=remote`.

## Gazelle

We use [Gazelle](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle) to automatically generate
`BUILD.bazel` files for most of our Go and TypeScript code.

Note that we occasionally edit Gazelle-generated `BUILD.bazel` files by hand, e.g. to mark tests as
[flaky](#flaky-tests).

### Usage

Run `make gazelle` from the repository's root directory.

### TypeScript support

Currently, Gazelle only generates front-end Bazel targets for the directories explicitly listed in
`//bazel/gazelle/frontend/allowlist.go`. Edit this file to enable generation of front-end targets
for your app.

TypeScript support is provided via a custom Gazelle extension which can be found in
`//bazel/gazelle/frontend`.

Tip: see [here](#testing-typescript-code) for details on how this extension decides which rule to
generate for a given TypeScript file.

## Buildifier

[Buildifier](https://github.com/bazelbuild/buildtools/tree/master/buildifier) is a linter and
formatter for `BUILD.bazel` and other Bazel files (`WORKSPACE`, `*.bzl`, etc.).

### Usage

Run `bazel run //:buildifier`.

## Bazel CI tasks

Our Bazel build is tested on RBE via the following tasks:

 - Infra-PerCommit-Build-Bazel-RBE (roughly equivalent to `bazel build //... --config=remote`)
 - Infra-PerCommit-Test-Bazel-RBE (roughly equivalent to `bazel test //... --config=remote`)

We regard the above tasks as the source of truth for build and test correctness.

As an insurance policy against RBE outages, we also have the following tasks:

 - Infra-PerCommit-Build-Bazel-Local (roughly equivalent to `bazel build //...`)
 - Infra-PerCommit-Test-Bazel-Local (roughly equivalent to `bazel test //...`)

The non-RBE tasks tend to be a bit more brittle than the RBE ones, which is why they are excluded
from the CQ.

## Building and testing

Use commands `bazel build` and `bazel test` to build and test Bazel targets, respectively.
Examples:

```
# Single target.
$ bazel build //go/util:util
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test

# All targets under a directory and any subdirectoriews.
$ bazel build //go/...
$ bazel test //go/...

# All targets in the repository.
$ bazel build //...
$ bazel test //...
```

Any build artifacts produced by `bazel build` or `bazel test` will be found under `//_bazel_bin`.

Note that it's not necessary to `bazel build` a test target before `bazel test`-ing it.
`bazel test` will automatically build the test target if it wasn't built already (i.e. if it
wasn't found in the Bazel cache).

More on `bazel build`
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/guide.html#building-programs-with-bazel).

More on `bazel test` [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/user-manual.html#test).

### Building and testing on RBE

By default, Bazel will build and test targets on the host system (aka a local build). To build on
RBE, add flag `--config=remote`, e.g.:

```
$ bazel build //go/util:util --config=remote
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --config=remote
```

Note that the `rbe-developer@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com` service account does not have
write access to the RBE cache. As a best practice, the
[RBE documentation](https://cloud.google.com/remote-build-execution/docs/remote-cache-overview),
recommends only granting write access to the CI environment. This is because the CI
environment is more tightly controlled environment than developer workstations. Granting write
access to developer workstations would expose us to numerous RBE cache poisoning scenarios.

## Running Bazel-built binaries

Use command `bazel run` to run binary Bazel targets (such as `go_binary`, `sh_binary`, etc.), e.g.:

```
# Without command-line parameters.
$ bazel run //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators

# With command-line parameters.
$ bazel run //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators -- start
```

Alternatively, you can run the Bazel-built artifact directly, e.g.:

```
$ bazel build //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators
$ _bazel_bin/scripts/run_emulators/run_emulators_/run_emulators start
```

The exact path of the binary under `//_bazel_bin` depends on the Bazel rule (`go_binary`,
`py_binary`, etc.). As you can see, said path can be non-obvious, so it's generally recommended to
use `bazel run`.

More on `bazel run` [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/user-manual.html#run).

## Back-end development in Go

Our Go codebase is built and tested using Bazel rules from the
[rules_go](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_go) repository. The `go_test` rule
[documentation](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_go/blob/master/go/core.rst#go_test) is a great
read to get started.

As mentioned in the [Gazelle](#gazelle) section, all Bazel targets for Go code are generated with
Gazelle.

Read [go/skia-infra-bazel-backend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-backend) for the full details.

### Building Go code

Simply use `bazel build` (and optionally `bazel run`) as described
[earlier](#building-and-testing).

### Testing Go code

Tip: Start by reading the [General testing tips](#general-testing-tips) section.

Our setup differs slightly from typical Go + Bazel projects in that we use a wrapper macro around
`go_test` to handle manual tests. Gazelle is configured to use this macro via a `gazelle:map_kind`
directive in `//BUILD.bazel`. The macro is defined in `//bazel/go/go_test.bzl`. Read the macro's
docstring for the full details.

#### Manual Go tests

To mark specific Go test cases as manual, extract them out into a separate file ending with
`_manual_test.go` within the same directory, and call `unittest.ManualTest(t)` from each test case
in said file.

The `go_test` macro in `//bazel/go/go_test.bzl` places files ending with `_manual_test.go` in a
separate `go_test` target, which is tagged as manual.

More on manual tests [here](#manual-tests).

#### Passing flags to Go tests

The `go test` command supports flags such as `-v` to print verbose outputs, `-run` to run a
specific test case, etc. Under Bazel, these flags can be passed to a `go_test` test target via
`--test_arg`, but they need to be prefixed with `-test.`, e.g.:

```
# Equivalent to "go test ./go/util -v".
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-test.v

# Equivalent to "go test ./go/util -run=TestFoo"
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-test.run=TestFoo
```

#### Example `bazel test` invocation for Go tests

The following example shows what a typical `bazel test` invocation might look like while debugging
a `go_test` target locally.

```
# Equivalent to "$ MY_ENV_VAR=foo go test ./go/my_pkg -v -logtostderr"
$ bazel test //go/my_pkg:my_pkg_test \
             --test_output=streamed \
             --nocache_test_results \
             --test_arg=-test.v \
             --test_arg=-logtostderr \
             --test_env=MY_ENV_VAR=foo
```

## Front-end development in TypeScript

Our front-end code is built and tested using a set of custom Bazel macros built on top of rules
provided by the [rules_nodejs](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_nodejs) repository. All such
macros are either defined in or re-exported from `//infra-sk/index.bzl`. This section uses the
terms macro and rule interchangeably when referring to the macros exported from said file.

As mentioned in the [Gazelle](#gazelle) section, most Bazel targets for front-end code are
generated with Gazelle.

Read [go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend) for the full details.

### Building TypeScript code

Simply use `bazel build` (and optionally `bazel run`) as described
[earlier](#building-and-testing).

### Working with demo pages

Demo pages are served via a Gazelle-generated `sk_demo_page_server` rule.

Use `bazel run` to serve a demo page via its `sk_demo_page_server` rule, e.g.:

```
$ bazel run //golden/modules/dots-sk:demo_page_server
```

### Testing TypeScript code

Tip: Start by reading the [General testing tips](#general-testing-tips) section.

Front-end code testing is done via three different Bazel rules:

 - `karma_test` for in-browser tests based on the Karma test runner.
 - `sk_element_puppeteer_test` for Puppeteer tests that require a running `sk_demo_page_server`.
 - `nodejs_test` for any other server-side TypeScript tests (i.e. NodeJS tests).

Gazelle decides which rule to generate for a given `*_test.ts` file based the following patterns:

 - `karma_test` is used for files matching `//<app>/modules/<element>/<element>_test.ts`.
 - `sk_element_puppeteer_test` is used for files matching
   `//<app>/modules/<element>/<element>_puppeteer_test.ts`.
 - `nodejs_test` is used for files matching `*_nodejs_test.ts`.

#### Karma tests (`karma_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a Karma test in headless mode:

```
$ bazel test //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_test
```

To run a Karma test in the browser during development, use `bazel run` instead:

```
$ bazel run //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_test
...
Karma v4.4.1 server started at http://0.0.0.0:9876/
```

#### Puppeteer tests (`sk_element_puppeteer_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a Puppeteer test, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_puppeteer_test
```

To view the screenshots captured  by a Puppeteer test, use the `//:extract_puppeteer_screenshots`
target:

```
mkdir /tmp/screenshots
$ bazel run //:extract_puppeteer_screenshots -- --output_dir /tmp/screenshots
```

#### NodeJS tests (`nodejs_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a NodeJS test, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //puppeteer-tests:util_nodejs_test
```

## General testing tips

The below tips apply to all Bazel test targets (e.g. `go_test`, `karma_test`, etc.).

### Test output

By default, Bazel omits the standard output of tests (e.g. `fmt.Println("Hello")`).

Use flag `--test_output=all` to see the full output of your tests:

```
$ bazel test //perf/... --test_output=all
```

Note that Bazel runs tests in parallel, so it will only print out their output once all tests have
finished running.

Flag `--test_output=errors` can be used to only print out the output of failing tests.

To see the tests' output in real time, use flag `--test_output=streamed`. Note however that this
forces serial execution of tests, so this can be significantly slower.

### Caching

Bazel caches successful test runs, and reports `(cached) PASSED` on subsequent `bazel test`
invocations, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                                      PASSED in 0.1s

$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                             (cached) PASSED in 0.1s
```

To disable caching, use flag `--nocache_test_results`, e.g.

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                             (cached) PASSED in 0.1s

$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --nocache_test_results
...
//go/util:util_test                                                      PASSED in 0.1s
```

### Flaky tests

Flaky tests can cause the CI to fail (see [Bazel CI tasks](#bazel-ci-tasks)).

Tests can be marked as flaky via the `flaky` argument, e.g.:

```
go_test(
    name = "some_flaky_test",
    srcs = ["some_flaky_test.go"],
    flaky = True,
    ...
)
```

Bazel will execute tests marked as flaky up to three times, and report test failure only if the
three attempts fail.

Using `flaky` is generally discouraged, but can be useful until the root cause of the flake is
diagnosed (see [Debugging flaky tests](#debugging-flaky-tests)) and fixed.

As a last resort, consider marking your flaky test as manual (see [Manual tests](#manual-tests)).

More on the `flaky` attribute
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/be/common-definitions.html#common-attributes-tests).

### Debugging flaky tests

While `--nocache_test_results` can be useful for debugging flaky tests, flag `--runs_per_test` was
specifically added for this purpose. Example:

```
$ bazel test //path/to:some_flaky_test --runs_per_test=10
...
//path/to:some_flaky_test                                             FAILED in 4 out of 10 in 0.1s
```

### Manual tests

Manual tests are excluded from Bazel wildcards such as `bazel test //...`.

To mark a test target as manual, use the `manual` tag, e.g.:

```
nodejs_test(
    name = "some_manual_nodejs_test",
    src = "some_manual_nodejs_test.ts",
    tags = ["manual"],
    ...
)
```

Note that the instructions to mark `go_test` targets as manual are different. See
[Manual Go tests](#manual-go-tests) for more.

Note that manual tests are excluded from the [Bazel CI tasks](#bazel-ci-tasks).

More on manual tests and Bazel tags
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/be/common-definitions.html#common-attributes).

### Test timeouts

By default, Bazel will report `TIMEOUT` if the test does not finish within 5 minutes. This can be
overridden via the `--test_timeout` flag, e.g.

`$ bazel test //go/util:slow_test --test_timeout=20`

This can also be overridden via the `timeout` and `size` arguments of the test target, e.g.

```
go_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["my_test.go"],
    timeout = "long",
    ....
)
```

More on how to handle timeouts and slow tests
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/common-definitions.html#test.timeout).

### Passing command-line flags to test binaries

Use flag `--test_arg` to pass flags to the binary produced by a test target.

For example, our `go_test` targets define custom command-line flags such as
`flag.Bool("logtostderr", ...)`. This flag can be enabled with `--test_arg`, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-logtostderr
```

As an alternative, command-line flags can be specified via the `args` argument of the Bazel test
target, as follows:

```
go_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["my_test.go],
    args = ["-logtostderr"],
    ...
)
```

More on test arguments
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/common-definitions.html#test.args).

### Overriding environment variables

By default, Bazel isolates test targets from the host system's environment variables, and sets the
environment with a number of variables with Bazel-specific information that some `*_test` rules
depend on (documented
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/test-encyclopedia.html#initial-conditions)).

Use flag `--test_env` to specify any environment variables, e.g.

```
$ bazel test //path/to:my_cockroachdb_test --test_env=COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR=/tmp/crdb
```

To pipe through an environment variable from the host's system:

```
$ export COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR=/tmp/crdb
$ bazel test //path/to:my_cockroachdb_test --test_env=COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR
```

More on the `--test_env` flag
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/command-line-reference.html#flag--test_env).

Commit message:

[infra] Add alternate bazelisk install instructions
I ran into issues with global npm installation.

Change-Id: I16150f92638b8edda12cf6bf97232d912101206b
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/442657
Auto-Submit: Kevin Lubick <kjlubick@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Rubber Stamper <rubber-stamper@appspot.gserviceaccount.com>
Bot-Commit: Rubber Stamper <rubber-stamper@appspot.gserviceaccount.com>

BAZEL_CHEATSHEET.md, after:

# Bazel cheatsheet

This cheatsheet provides quick tips on how to build and test code in our repository using Bazel.

Start [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/4.1.0/bazel-overview.html) if you're completely new
to Bazel.

The reference documentation for our Bazel build can be found at the following Golinks:

 - [go/skia-infra-bazel](http://go/skia-infra-bazel)
 - [go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend)
 - [go/skia-infra-bazel-backend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-backend)

## Initial setup

This section includes steps every engineer should follow to get a consistent development
experience.

### Install Bazelisk

[Bazelisk](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazelisk) is a wrapper for Bazel that downloads and runs
the version of Bazel specified in `//.bazelversion`. It serves a similar purpose as
[nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for NodeJS.

Bazelisk is recommended over plain Bazel because the `bazel` command on our gLinux workstations is
automatically updated every time a new version of Bazel is released.

The easiest way to install Bazelisk is via `npm`, e.g.:

```
npm install -g @bazel/bazelisk
```

An alternate method is to install bazelisk to a temporary directory and then copy the correct binary
to the PATH. For example:

```
mkdir /tmp/bazelisk && cd /tmp/bazelisk
npm install @bazel/bazelisk
cp node_modules/@bazel/bazelisk/bazelisk-linux_amd64 ~/bin/bazelisk
ln ~/bin/bazelisk ~/bin/bazel
```

Tips:

 - Make a Bash alias with `alias bazel="bazelisk"` and add it to your `~/.bash_aliases` file.
 - Set the full path to `bazel` to be the full path to `bazelisk` in your IDE of choice. This is
   necessary for some extensions to work correctly, such as the
   [Bazel plugin for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=BazelBuild.vscode-bazel).

### Get your RBE credentials

These steps are necessary for the `--config=remote` flag to work on a gLinux workstation.

First, create service account under the `skia-public` GCP project, if you don't have one already:

```
$ gcloud iam service-accounts create somegoogler-rbe \
      --description "somegoogler's RBE service account" \
      --project skia-public
```

Next, grant your service account the
[Remote Build Execution Artifact Creator](https://cloud.google.com/remote-build-execution/docs/access-control#granting_the_ability_to_run_builds_remotely)
role under the `skia-infra-rbe` GCP project, which is where our
[RBE instance](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/apis/api/remotebuildexecution.googleapis.com/overview?project=skia-infra-rbe)
lives:

```
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding skia-infra-rbe \
      --role roles/remotebuildexecution.artifactCreator \
      --member serviceAccount:somegoogler-rbe@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

Then, create a JSON service account key:

```
$ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create path/to/somegoogler-rbe.json \
      --project skia-infra \
      --iam-account somegoogler-rbe@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com
```

Finally, create a `.bazelrc` file in your home directory with the following contents:

```
build:remote --google_credentials=path/to/somegoogler-rbe.json
```

Note that service account keys expire after 3 months, so you might have to repeat this step if you
run into permission issues.

To verify your setup, run a remote build:

```
$ bazel build //... --config=remote
```

Note that your service account will be set up with read-only access to the RBE remote cache
(rationale [here](#building-and-testing-on-rbe)). Do not be alarmed if you see
`Writing to Remote Cache: PERMISSION_DENIED` warnings when building from a developer workstation
with `--config=remote`.

## Gazelle

We use [Gazelle](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle) to automatically generate
`BUILD.bazel` files for most of our Go and TypeScript code.

Note that we occasionally edit Gazelle-generated `BUILD.bazel` files by hand, e.g. to mark tests as
[flaky](#flaky-tests).

### Usage

Run `make gazelle` from the repository's root directory.

### TypeScript support

Currently, Gazelle only generates front-end Bazel targets for the directories explicitly listed in
`//bazel/gazelle/frontend/allowlist.go`. Edit this file to enable generation of front-end targets
for your app.

TypeScript support is provided via a custom Gazelle extension which can be found in
`//bazel/gazelle/frontend`.

Tip: see [here](#testing-typescript-code) for details on how this extension decides which rule to
generate for a given TypeScript file.

## Buildifier

[Buildifier](https://github.com/bazelbuild/buildtools/tree/master/buildifier) is a linter and
formatter for `BUILD.bazel` and other Bazel files (`WORKSPACE`, `*.bzl`, etc.).

### Usage

Run `bazel run //:buildifier`.

## Bazel CI tasks

Our Bazel build is tested on RBE via the following tasks:

 - Infra-PerCommit-Build-Bazel-RBE (roughly equivalent to `bazel build //... --config=remote`)
 - Infra-PerCommit-Test-Bazel-RBE (roughly equivalent to `bazel test //... --config=remote`)

We regard the above tasks as the source of truth for build and test correctness.

As an insurance policy against RBE outages, we also have the following tasks:

 - Infra-PerCommit-Build-Bazel-Local (roughly equivalent to `bazel build //...`)
 - Infra-PerCommit-Test-Bazel-Local (roughly equivalent to `bazel test //...`)

The non-RBE tasks tend to be a bit more brittle than the RBE ones, which is why they are excluded
from the CQ.

## Building and testing

Use commands `bazel build` and `bazel test` to build and test Bazel targets, respectively.
Examples:

```
# Single target.
$ bazel build //go/util:util
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test

# All targets under a directory and any subdirectoriews.
$ bazel build //go/...
$ bazel test //go/...

# All targets in the repository.
$ bazel build //...
$ bazel test //...
```

Any build artifacts produced by `bazel build` or `bazel test` will be found under `//_bazel_bin`.

Note that it's not necessary to `bazel build` a test target before `bazel test`-ing it.
`bazel test` will automatically build the test target if it wasn't built already (i.e. if it
wasn't found in the Bazel cache).

More on `bazel build`
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/guide.html#building-programs-with-bazel).

More on `bazel test` [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/user-manual.html#test).

### Building and testing on RBE

By default, Bazel will build and test targets on the host system (aka a local build). To build on
RBE, add flag `--config=remote`, e.g.:

```
$ bazel build //go/util:util --config=remote
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --config=remote
```

Note that the `rbe-developer@skia-public.iam.gserviceaccount.com` service account does not have
write access to the RBE cache. As a best practice, the
[RBE documentation](https://cloud.google.com/remote-build-execution/docs/remote-cache-overview),
recommends only granting write access to the CI environment. This is because the CI
environment is more tightly controlled environment than developer workstations. Granting write
access to developer workstations would expose us to numerous RBE cache poisoning scenarios.

## Running Bazel-built binaries

Use command `bazel run` to run binary Bazel targets (such as `go_binary`, `sh_binary`, etc.), e.g.:

```
# Without command-line parameters.
$ bazel run //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators

# With command-line parameters.
$ bazel run //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators -- start
```

Alternatively, you can run the Bazel-built artifact directly, e.g.:

```
$ bazel build //scripts/run_emulators:run_emulators
$ _bazel_bin/scripts/run_emulators/run_emulators_/run_emulators start
```

The exact path of the binary under `//_bazel_bin` depends on the Bazel rule (`go_binary`,
`py_binary`, etc.). As you can see, said path can be non-obvious, so it's generally recommended to
use `bazel run`.

More on `bazel run` [here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/user-manual.html#run).

## Back-end development in Go

Our Go codebase is built and tested using Bazel rules from the
[rules_go](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_go) repository. The `go_test` rule
[documentation](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_go/blob/master/go/core.rst#go_test) is a great
read to get started.

As mentioned in the [Gazelle](#gazelle) section, all Bazel targets for Go code are generated with
Gazelle.

Read [go/skia-infra-bazel-backend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-backend) for the full details.

### Building Go code

Simply use `bazel build` (and optionally `bazel run`) as described
[earlier](#building-and-testing).

### Testing Go code

Tip: Start by reading the [General testing tips](#general-testing-tips) section.

Our setup differs slightly from typical Go + Bazel projects in that we use a wrapper macro around
`go_test` to handle manual tests. Gazelle is configured to use this macro via a `gazelle:map_kind`
directive in `//BUILD.bazel`. The macro is defined in `//bazel/go/go_test.bzl`. Read the macro's
docstring for the full details.

#### Manual Go tests

To mark specific Go test cases as manual, extract them out into a separate file ending with
`_manual_test.go` within the same directory, and call `unittest.ManualTest(t)` from each test case
in said file.

The `go_test` macro in `//bazel/go/go_test.bzl` places files ending with `_manual_test.go` in a
separate `go_test` target, which is tagged as manual.

More on manual tests [here](#manual-tests).

#### Passing flags to Go tests

The `go test` command supports flags such as `-v` to print verbose outputs, `-run` to run a
specific test case, etc. Under Bazel, these flags can be passed to a `go_test` test target via
`--test_arg`, but they need to be prefixed with `-test.`, e.g.:

```
# Equivalent to "go test ./go/util -v".
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-test.v

# Equivalent to "go test ./go/util -run=TestFoo"
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-test.run=TestFoo
```

#### Example `bazel test` invocation for Go tests

The following example shows what a typical `bazel test` invocation might look like while debugging
a `go_test` target locally.

```
# Equivalent to "$ MY_ENV_VAR=foo go test ./go/my_pkg -v -logtostderr"
$ bazel test //go/my_pkg:my_pkg_test \
             --test_output=streamed \
             --nocache_test_results \
             --test_arg=-test.v \
             --test_arg=-logtostderr \
             --test_env=MY_ENV_VAR=foo
```

## Front-end development in TypeScript

Our front-end code is built and tested using a set of custom Bazel macros built on top of rules
provided by the [rules_nodejs](https://github.com/bazelbuild/rules_nodejs) repository. All such
macros are either defined in or re-exported from `//infra-sk/index.bzl`. This section uses the
terms macro and rule interchangeably when referring to the macros exported from said file.

As mentioned in the [Gazelle](#gazelle) section, most Bazel targets for front-end code are
generated with Gazelle.

Read [go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend](http://go/skia-infra-bazel-frontend) for the full details.

### Building TypeScript code

Simply use `bazel build` (and optionally `bazel run`) as described
[earlier](#building-and-testing).

### Working with demo pages

Demo pages are served via a Gazelle-generated `sk_demo_page_server` rule.

Use `bazel run` to serve a demo page via its `sk_demo_page_server` rule, e.g.:

```
$ bazel run //golden/modules/dots-sk:demo_page_server
```

### Testing TypeScript code

Tip: Start by reading the [General testing tips](#general-testing-tips) section.

Front-end code testing is done via three different Bazel rules:

 - `karma_test` for in-browser tests based on the Karma test runner.
 - `sk_element_puppeteer_test` for Puppeteer tests that require a running `sk_demo_page_server`.
 - `nodejs_test` for any other server-side TypeScript tests (i.e. NodeJS tests).

Gazelle decides which rule to generate for a given `*_test.ts` file based the following patterns:

 - `karma_test` is used for files matching `//<app>/modules/<element>/<element>_test.ts`.
 - `sk_element_puppeteer_test` is used for files matching
   `//<app>/modules/<element>/<element>_puppeteer_test.ts`.
 - `nodejs_test` is used for files matching `*_nodejs_test.ts`.

#### Karma tests (`karma_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a Karma test in headless mode:

```
$ bazel test //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_test
```

To run a Karma test in the browser during development, use `bazel run` instead:

```
$ bazel run //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_test
...
Karma v4.4.1 server started at http://0.0.0.0:9876/
```

#### Puppeteer tests (`sk_element_puppeteer_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a Puppeteer test, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //golden/modules/dots-sk:dots-sk_puppeteer_test
```

To view the screenshots captured  by a Puppeteer test, use the `//:extract_puppeteer_screenshots`
target:

```
mkdir /tmp/screenshots
$ bazel run //:extract_puppeteer_screenshots -- --output_dir /tmp/screenshots
```

#### NodeJS tests (`nodejs_test` rule)

Use `bazel test` to run a NodeJS test, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //puppeteer-tests:util_nodejs_test
```

## General testing tips

The below tips apply to all Bazel test targets (e.g. `go_test`, `karma_test`, etc.).

### Test output

By default, Bazel omits the standard output of tests (e.g. `fmt.Println("Hello")`).

Use flag `--test_output=all` to see the full output of your tests:

```
$ bazel test //perf/... --test_output=all
```

Note that Bazel runs tests in parallel, so it will only print out their output once all tests have
finished running.

Flag `--test_output=errors` can be used to only print out the output of failing tests.

To see the tests' output in real time, use flag `--test_output=streamed`. Note however that this
forces serial execution of tests, so this can be significantly slower.

### Caching

Bazel caches successful test runs, and reports `(cached) PASSED` on subsequent `bazel test`
invocations, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                                      PASSED in 0.1s

$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                             (cached) PASSED in 0.1s
```

To disable caching, use flag `--nocache_test_results`, e.g.

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test
...
//go/util:util_test                                             (cached) PASSED in 0.1s

$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --nocache_test_results
...
//go/util:util_test                                                      PASSED in 0.1s
```

### Flaky tests

Flaky tests can cause the CI to fail (see [Bazel CI tasks](#bazel-ci-tasks)).

Tests can be marked as flaky via the `flaky` argument, e.g.:

```
go_test(
    name = "some_flaky_test",
    srcs = ["some_flaky_test.go"],
    flaky = True,
    ...
)
```

Bazel will execute tests marked as flaky up to three times, and report test failure only if the
three attempts fail.

Using `flaky` is generally discouraged, but can be useful until the root cause of the flake is
diagnosed (see [Debugging flaky tests](#debugging-flaky-tests)) and fixed.

As a last resort, consider marking your flaky test as manual (see [Manual tests](#manual-tests)).

More on the `flaky` attribute
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/be/common-definitions.html#common-attributes-tests).

### Debugging flaky tests

While `--nocache_test_results` can be useful for debugging flaky tests, flag `--runs_per_test` was
specifically added for this purpose. Example:

```
$ bazel test //path/to:some_flaky_test --runs_per_test=10
...
//path/to:some_flaky_test                                             FAILED in 4 out of 10 in 0.1s
```

### Manual tests

Manual tests are excluded from Bazel wildcards such as `bazel test //...`.

To mark a test target as manual, use the `manual` tag, e.g.:

```
nodejs_test(
    name = "some_manual_nodejs_test",
    src = "some_manual_nodejs_test.ts",
    tags = ["manual"],
    ...
)
```

Note that the instructions to mark `go_test` targets as manual are different. See
[Manual Go tests](#manual-go-tests) for more.

Note that manual tests are excluded from the [Bazel CI tasks](#bazel-ci-tasks).

More on manual tests and Bazel tags
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/be/common-definitions.html#common-attributes).

### Test timeouts

By default, Bazel will report `TIMEOUT` if the test does not finish within 5 minutes. This can be
overridden via the `--test_timeout` flag, e.g.

`$ bazel test //go/util:slow_test --test_timeout=20`

This can also be overridden via the `timeout` and `size` arguments of the test target, e.g.

```
go_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["my_test.go"],
    timeout = "long",
    ....
)
```

More on how to handle timeouts and slow tests
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/common-definitions.html#test.timeout).

### Passing command-line flags to test binaries

Use flag `--test_arg` to pass flags to the binary produced by a test target.

For example, our `go_test` targets define custom command-line flags such as
`flag.Bool("logtostderr", ...)`. This flag can be enabled with `--test_arg`, e.g.:

```
$ bazel test //go/util:util_test --test_arg=-logtostderr
```

As an alternative, command-line flags can be specified via the `args` argument of the Bazel test
target, as follows:

```
go_test(
    name = "my_test",
    srcs = ["my_test.go],
    args = ["-logtostderr"],
    ...
)
```

More on test arguments
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/common-definitions.html#test.args).

### Overriding environment variables

By default, Bazel isolates test targets from the host system's environment variables, and sets the
environment with a number of variables with Bazel-specific information that some `*_test` rules
depend on (documented
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/test-encyclopedia.html#initial-conditions)).

Use flag `--test_env` to specify any environment variables, e.g.

```
$ bazel test //path/to:my_cockroachdb_test --test_env=COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR=/tmp/crdb
```

To pipe through an environment variable from the host's system:

```
$ export COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR=/tmp/crdb
$ bazel test //path/to:my_cockroachdb_test --test_env=COCKROACHDB_EMULATOR_STORE_DIR
```

More on the `--test_env` flag
[here](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/command-line-reference.html#flag--test_env).
