fiddlek/DESIGN.md, before:

# Fiddle 3.0 Design

Fiddle is broken in to two pieces, each run as containers on kubernetes.

1. Fiddle
1. Handles serving the web UI.
1. Reads/writes results to/from Google Cloud Storage.
1. Is exposed to Ingress.
1. Fiddler
1. Accepts code to run via POST.
1. Compiles and runs code.
1. Returns results of run as JSON.
1. The pods are never exposed as a Service.
1. The pods are severely locked down.
1. Fiddler pods are killed after 1 run.

A number of fiddlers are run on kubernetes and await code sent by fiddle.
After a single run the container is deleted and kubernetes will schedule
a replacement pod.

    +-------------------+
    |                   |                    +--------------------+
    |                   |                    |                    |
    | Fiddle            +------------------->+ Fiddler            |
    |                   |                    |                    |
    |                   |                    +--------------------+
    +-------------------+
                                                .
                                                .
                                                .
                                             +--------------------+
                                             |                    |
                                             | Fiddler            |
                                             |                    |
                                             +--------------------+

## URLs

The URL structure of fiddle is:

    /c/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee - Direct link to a fiddle.

Links to individual resources:

    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_raster.png
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_gpu.png
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.pdf
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.skp

Links to individual resources for a given commit:

    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_raster.png
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_gpu.png
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.pdf
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.skp

Where runid is the hash timestamp and git hash of a particular version of Skia.

To create a new fiddle, POST JSON to /\_/run of the form:

    {
      "code":"void draw(SkCanvas...",
      "width":256,
      "height":256,
      "source":0,
    }

Embedding fiddles in iframes is done by:

    /iframe/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee

Which should really just be a version of index.html that strips out much of the
surrounding elements.

[Scraps](../scrap/README.md) can be expanded by visiting

    /scrap/{typeType}/{scrapHashOrName}

A fiddle will be created from the scrap and then the user will be redirected to
a direct link to the create fiddle.

## Storage

Fiddles are stored in Google Storage under gs://skia-fiddle/, which is
different from fiddle 1.0 where they were stored in MySql. For each fiddle we
store the user's code at:

    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/draw.cpp

The image width, height, and source (as a 64bit int) values are stored as metadata on the draw.cpp file.

Note that the fiddlehash must match the hash generated by fiddle 1.0, so that
hash is actually the hash of the user's code with line numbers added, along
with the width and height added in a comment. We also store the rendered
images:

    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/cpu.png
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/gpu.png
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/skp.skp
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/pdf.pdf

## Named Fiddles

Named fiddles are actually just like soft links from a name to the fiddleHash
of a fiddle. The named fiddles are stored in:

    gs://skia-fiddle/named/<fiddle name>

Where the name of the fiddle is the filename, and the contents of the file is
the fiddleHash. The id of the person that created the named shortcut is
attached as metadata to the file.

# Source

Source images are packaged into each container.

## Security

We're putting a C++ compiler on the web, and promising to run the results of
user submitted code, so security is a large concern. Security is handled in a
layered approach, using a combination of limits, AppArmor, and network
profiles.

limits

- Each run of the fiddle executable is restricted to 30 seconds.
- Each request to a fiddler times out after 2 minutes.

AppArmor

- We use the default kubernetes profile.

Network

- Each fiddler pod is restricted to only allow ingress on ports
  8000 and 20000 and is totally blocked on network egress.

Capabilities

- Each fiddler pod drops all capabilities.

User

- Each image runs as user skia (2000) with no extra privileges.

Lifetime

- Each fiddler pod is deleted after it handles 1 fiddle.

RBAC

- Fiddler pods don't load any mounts, secrets, or service accounts.

## Backups

A backup of all the named fiddles from gs://skia-fiddle/named
to gs://skia-fiddle-backup takes placed on a daily basis. See:

https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/transfer?project=google.com:skia-buildbots

Commit message:

[fiddle] Add documentation for dealing with named fiddle errors
Change-Id: Ib9bdac92fa5b2814f347f2c57002ca598d220c69
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/423916
Reviewed-by: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>

fiddlek/DESIGN.md, after:

# Fiddle 3.0 Design

Fiddle is broken in to two pieces, each run as containers on kubernetes.

1. Fiddle
1. Handles serving the web UI.
1. Reads/writes results to/from Google Cloud Storage.
1. Is exposed to Ingress.
1. Fiddler
1. Accepts code to run via POST.
1. Compiles and runs code.
1. Returns results of run as JSON.
1. The pods are never exposed as a Service.
1. The pods are severely locked down.
1. Fiddler pods are killed after 1 run.

A number of fiddlers are run on kubernetes and await code sent by fiddle.
After a single run the container is deleted and kubernetes will schedule
a replacement pod.

    +-------------------+
    |                   |                    +--------------------+
    |                   |                    |                    |
    | Fiddle            +------------------->+ Fiddler            |
    |                   |                    |                    |
    |                   |                    +--------------------+
    +-------------------+
                                                .
                                                .
                                                .
                                             +--------------------+
                                             |                    |
                                             | Fiddler            |
                                             |                    |
                                             +--------------------+

## URLs

The URL structure of fiddle is:

    /c/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee - Direct link to a fiddle.

Links to individual resources:

    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_raster.png
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_gpu.png
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.pdf
    /i/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.skp

Links to individual resources for a given commit:

    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_raster.png
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee_gpu.png
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.pdf
    /ai/<runid>/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee.skp

Where runid is the hash timestamp and git hash of a particular version of Skia.

To create a new fiddle, POST JSON to /\_/run of the form:

    {
      "code":"void draw(SkCanvas...",
      "width":256,
      "height":256,
      "source":0,
    }

Embedding fiddles in iframes is done by:

    /iframe/cbb8dee39e9f1576cd97c2d504db8eee

Which should really just be a version of index.html that strips out much of the
surrounding elements.

[Scraps](../scrap/README.md) can be expanded by visiting

    /scrap/{typeType}/{scrapHashOrName}

A fiddle will be created from the scrap and then the user will be redirected to
a direct link to the create fiddle.

## Storage

Fiddles are stored in Google Storage under gs://skia-fiddle/, which is
different from fiddle 1.0 where they were stored in MySql. For each fiddle we
store the user's code at:

    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/draw.cpp

The image width, height, and source (as a 64bit int) values are stored as metadata on the draw.cpp file.

Note that the fiddlehash must match the hash generated by fiddle 1.0, so that
hash is actually the hash of the user's code with line numbers added, along
with the width and height added in a comment. We also store the rendered
images:

    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/cpu.png
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/gpu.png
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/skp.skp
    gs://skia-fiddle/fiddle/<fiddlehash>/pdf.pdf

## Named Fiddles

Named fiddles are actually just like soft links from a name to the fiddleHash
of a fiddle. The named fiddles are stored in:

    gs://skia-fiddle/named/<fiddle name>

Where the name of the fiddle is the filename, and the contents of the file is
the fiddleHash. The id of the person that created the named shortcut is
attached as metadata to the file.

Named fiddles come exclusively from the Skia repo. They are currently checked in to
[$SKIA_ROOT/docs/examples](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia/+/refs/heads/main/docs/examples).
With the help of [make_all_examples_cpp.py](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia/+/refs/heads/main/tools/fiddle/make_all_examples_cpp.py),
they are compiled regularly to ensure freshness as a part of the
[fiddle_examples executable](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia/+/569f29da862372ab8faeaf851966c2d620bb696c/BUILD.gn#2726).

# Source

Source images are packaged into each container.

## Security

We're putting a C++ compiler on the web, and promising to run the results of
user submitted code, so security is a large concern. Security is handled in a
layered approach, using a combination of limits, AppArmor, and network
profiles.

limits

- Each run of the fiddle executable is restricted to 30 seconds.
- Each request to a fiddler times out after 2 minutes.

AppArmor

- We use the default kubernetes profile.

Network

- Each fiddler pod is restricted to only allow ingress on ports
  8000 and 20000 and is totally blocked on network egress.

Capabilities

- Each fiddler pod drops all capabilities.

User

- Each image runs as user skia (2000) with no extra privileges.

Lifetime

- Each fiddler pod is deleted after it handles 1 fiddle.

RBAC

- Fiddler pods don't load any mounts, secrets, or service accounts.

## Backups

A backup of all the named fiddles from gs://skia-fiddle/named
to gs://skia-fiddle-backup takes placed on a daily basis. See:

https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/transfer?project=google.com:skia-buildbots
