skolo/ansible/switchboard/roles/copy_service_account_key/README.md, before:

# Role Name

`copy_service_account_key`

## Description

Copy the service account key to the chrome-bot home directory.

Does this safely by extracting the files from berglas to temp files, copying
them over, and then deleting the temp files.

Loads the common `key.json` file from
[berglas](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/berglas) and copies them over
to the target machine. See
[//kube/secrets](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/refs/heads/main/kube/secrets/)
for more details on berglas and Skia secrets.

The key is stored as a kubernetes secret in berglas secrets for the cluster
`etc` and the secret name `skolo-bot-service-account`.

You can see this secret in the list of all secrets for the `etc` cluster:

        $ ../../kube/secrets/list-secrets-by-cluster.sh etc
        skolo-service-accounts
        skolo-bot-service-account
        skia-rpi-adb-key
        k3s-node-token
        authorized_keys
        ansible-secret-vars

The file is copied into
`$HOME/.config/gcloud/application_default_credentials.json` so that client
libraries can find and use this by default.

## Variables

This role uses the `skolo_account` variable defined in
`//skolo/ansible/group_vars/all.yml` and potentially overridden in `hosts.ini`.

## Security

The `secrets.yml` is only put in a temp file long enough to be copied to the
target machine, then the temp file is removed by the `clean_up_tempfile`
handler.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: '{{ variable_hosts }}'

      roles:
        - copy_adbkey

Commit message:

Make name of service account an arg to the copy_service_account_key role.
Test machines and jumphosts should use a different service
account, start splitting them out by first being able to
specify the service account in copy_service_account_key.

Change-Id: If6c5c2cb33fee6a1209ab0a9d43b5e70de2ed59e
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/439167
Reviewed-by: Erik Rose <erikrose@google.com>

skolo/ansible/switchboard/roles/copy_service_account_key/README.md, after:

# Role Name

`copy_service_account_key`

## Description

Copy the service account key to the chrome-bot home directory.

Does this safely by extracting the files from berglas to temp files, copying
them over, and then deleting the temp files.

Loads the common `key.json` file from
[berglas](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/berglas) and copies them over
to the target machine. See
[//kube/secrets](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/refs/heads/main/kube/secrets/)
for more details on berglas and Skia secrets.

The key is stored as a kubernetes secret in berglas secrets for the cluster
`etc` and the secret name is passed in via the `service_account_name` argument
to the role.

You can see all secrets for the `etc` cluster by running:

        $ ../../kube/secrets/list-secrets-by-cluster.sh etc
        skolo-service-accounts
        skolo-bot-service-account
        skia-rpi-adb-key
        k3s-node-token
        authorized_keys
        ansible-secret-vars

The file is copied into
`$HOME/.config/gcloud/application_default_credentials.json` so that client
libraries can find and use this by default.

## Variables

This role uses the `skolo_account` variable defined in
`//skolo/ansible/group_vars/all.yml` and potentially overridden in `hosts.ini`.

## Security

The `secrets.yml` is only put in a temp file long enough to be copied to the
target machine, then the temp file is removed by the `clean_up_tempfile`
handler.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: '{{ variable_hosts }}'

      roles:
        - { role: copy_service_account_key, service_account_name: 'skolo-jumphost' }
