kube/README.md, before:

Kubernetes config and applications
==================================

Scripts, YAML files, and utility apps to run our kubernetes cluster(s). Each
cluster will have its own subdirectory that matches the name of the GCE
project.

Ingress
=======

The ingress configs presume that the IP address and certs have already been
created and named, both of which can be done via command line.

Upload certs:

    gcloud compute ssl-certificates create skia-org --certificate=skia.pem --private-key=skia.key

Take care when copying the certs around, for example, download them onto a
ramdrive and unmount the ramdrive after they have been uploaded. See
'create-sa.sh' in this directory.

Reserving a named global IP address:

    gcloud compute addresses create skia-org --global

Configuration
=============

The kubernetes configuration files are kept in a separate repo that will
automaticaly be checked out under /tmp by the pushk command.

Continuous Deployment
=====================

Continuous deployment uses three bits on infrastructure:

  1. The same build_foo config files that are used when building from the desktop.
  2. [GCP Container Builder](https://cloud.google.com/container-builder/).
  3. The continuous-deploy application.

To do continuous deployment for any application that depends upon the Skia
repo, such as fiddler, you will need to add two new steps and a new image
to the `docker/cloudbuild.yaml` file in the Skia repo.

For example:

```
  - name: 'gcr.io/skia-public/infra:prod'
    dir: '/home/skia/golib/src/go.skia.org/infra/fiddlek'
    env:
      - 'ROOT=/workspace/__staging'
      - 'SKIP_BUILD=1'
    args: ['./build_fiddler_release']
    timeout: 600s
```

As a note, the `gcr.io/skia-public/infra:prod` image that this cloud builder step runs on
is re-created on each commit to this repo (see [docker/Dockerfile](../docker/Dockerfile)).

This sets the working directory to the one for the app we want to build, then
runs the `build_fiddler_release` script, but note that we have set the `ROOT`
and `SKIP_BUILD` environment variables so that the script only builds the
application and copies the files into the directory w/o calling docker on that
directory. Also note that we are putting our work product under the /workspace
directory which is preserved between steps by GCP Container Builder.

Also note that we could add a Makefile target that runs all tests and then
runs `build_fiddler_release` and calls make instead of `build_fiddler_release`
directly, which is the preferred method.

Then we add a second step that runs docker on that container to build the
image:

```
  - name: 'gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker'
    args: ['build', '-t', 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/fiddler:$COMMIT_SHA', '/workspace/__staging']
    timeout: 600s
```

See [Substituting Variable Values](https://cloud.google.com/container-builder/docs/configuring-builds/substitute-variable-values)
for more details on `$PROJECT_ID` and `$COMMIT_SHA`.

Finally we add the new image to the list of images that get pushed to
`gcr.io`:

```
images:
  - 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/fiddler:$COMMIT_SHA'
  - 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/skia-release:prod'

```

The continuous-deploy application runs in skia-public and listens for PubSub
messages from GCP Container Builder that is has successfully completed a build
and in that message it includes a list of images it has uploaded. Update the
`continuous-deploy.yaml` file to include the short name of the image you want
continuously deployed as a command-line argument:

```
containers:
  - name: continuous-deploy
    image: gcr.io/skia-public/continuous-deploy:2018-...
    args:
      - "--logtostderr"
      - "--prom_port=:20000"
      - "fiddler"
```

Since continuous-deploy runs `pushk`, all of these deployments will be
recorded in the git repo for skia-public.

Standing up a new cluster in a different project
================================================

  1. Add a new `__skia_NNN` function to `clusters.sh`.
  2. Create the `config-NNN.sh` file.
  3. Copy and modify the `create-cluster-corp.sh` script.
  4. Add a node pool if necessary using the web UI.
  5. Create a new config repo of the form https://skia.googlesource.com/skia-NNNNN-config/.
  6. Add the new cluster to the `clusters` variable in go/pushk/main.go.

Commit message:

[sk8s] Update pushk so that all the YAML files are stored in a single repo.
Order of operations:

1. Land the clusterconfig library. https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/258879
2. Updates to the gold pushk tool.
3. Updates to the autoroll push tool.
4. Land this CL.
5. Sync all files from skia-public and skia-corp into k8s-config.
6. Everyone rebuilds pushk on their local machine.
7. Push an updated version of continuous-deploy.
8. Remove all files from the old skia-corp-config and skia-public-config repos.

Change-Id: I44803f8796c56859fd0193a46c78b54cd7439a4b
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/257381
Commit-Queue: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Eric Boren <borenet@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Kevin Lubick <kjlubick@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Leandro Lovisolo <lovisolo@google.com>

kube/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes config and applications

Scripts, YAML files, and utility apps to run our kubernetes cluster(s). Each
cluster will have its own subdirectory that matches the name of the GCE
project.

## Ingress

The ingress configs presume that the IP address and certs have already been
created and named, both of which can be done via command line.

Upload certs:

    gcloud compute ssl-certificates create skia-org --certificate=skia.pem --private-key=skia.key

Take care when copying the certs around, for example, download them onto a
ramdrive and unmount the ramdrive after they have been uploaded. See
'create-sa.sh' in this directory.

Reserving a named global IP address:

    gcloud compute addresses create skia-org --global

## pushk and kube/clusters/config.json

The definitive list of clusters and how to talk to each one is stored in
`kube/clusters/config.json`.

This config file also defines the git repo where YAML files are stored and where
to checkout that repo when pushing. The location of the checkout can be set by
setting the PUSHK_GITDIR environment variable.

The k8s YAML files are checked into https://skia.googlesource.com/k8s-config/,
with one sub-directory for each cluster.

When you run pushk it will update the images for all the clusters and then run
`kubectl apply` for each file and for each cluster.

## Continuous Deployment

Continuous deployment uses three bits on infrastructure:

  1. The same build_foo config files that are used when building from the desktop.
  2. [GCP Container Builder](https://cloud.google.com/container-builder/).
  3. The continuous-deploy application.

To do continuous deployment for any application that depends upon the Skia
repo, such as fiddler, you will need to add two new steps and a new image
to the `docker/cloudbuild.yaml` file in the Skia repo.

For example:

```
  - name: 'gcr.io/skia-public/infra:prod'
    dir: '/home/skia/golib/src/go.skia.org/infra/fiddlek'
    env:
      - 'ROOT=/workspace/__staging'
      - 'SKIP_BUILD=1'
    args: ['./build_fiddler_release']
    timeout: 600s
```

As a note, the `gcr.io/skia-public/infra:prod` image that this cloud builder step runs on
is re-created on each commit to this repo (see [docker/Dockerfile](../docker/Dockerfile)).

This sets the working directory to the one for the app we want to build, then
runs the `build_fiddler_release` script, but note that we have set the `ROOT`
and `SKIP_BUILD` environment variables so that the script only builds the
application and copies the files into the directory w/o calling docker on that
directory. Also note that we are putting our work product under the /workspace
directory which is preserved between steps by GCP Container Builder.

Also note that we could add a Makefile target that runs all tests and then
runs `build_fiddler_release` and calls make instead of `build_fiddler_release`
directly, which is the preferred method.

Then we add a second step that runs docker on that container to build the
image:

```
  - name: 'gcr.io/cloud-builders/docker'
    args: ['build', '-t', 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/fiddler:$COMMIT_SHA', '/workspace/__staging']
    timeout: 600s
```

See [Substituting Variable Values](https://cloud.google.com/container-builder/docs/configuring-builds/substitute-variable-values)
for more details on `$PROJECT_ID` and `$COMMIT_SHA`.

Finally we add the new image to the list of images that get pushed to
`gcr.io`:

```
images:
  - 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/fiddler:$COMMIT_SHA'
  - 'gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/skia-release:prod'

```

The continuous-deploy application runs in skia-public and listens for PubSub
messages from GCP Container Builder that is has successfully completed a build
and in that message it includes a list of images it has uploaded. Update the
`continuous-deploy.yaml` file to include the short name of the image you want
continuously deployed as a command-line argument:

```
containers:
  - name: continuous-deploy
    image: gcr.io/skia-public/continuous-deploy:2018-...
    args:
      - "--logtostderr"
      - "--prom_port=:20000"
      - "fiddler"
```

Since continuous-deploy runs `pushk`, all of these deployments will be
recorded in the git repo for skia-public.

## Standing up a new cluster in a different project

  1. Add a new `__skia_NNN` function to `clusters.sh`.
  2. Create the `config-NNN.sh` file.
  3. Copy and modify the `create-cluster-corp.sh` script.
  4. Add a node pool if necessary using the web UI.
  5. Update `kube/clusters/config.json` with info on the new cluster.
