kube/secrets/README.md, before:

# Secrets
Secrets for all clusters are stored encrypted in Google Cloud Storage with the
keys managed via Google KMS. We use the
[breglas](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/berglas) tool
to manage the encrypted information.

There is a command to copy secrets between cluster directories, and a command to
apply all secrets for a cluster, thus making it easy to spin up a new cluster.

All commands move the secrets through stdin/stdout, except `edit-secrets.sh`
which uses a temporary ramdisk to store the files which gets unmounted
immediately after editing. In all cases secrets never sit on the developers
drive.

The `add-service-account.sh` script emits the full service account email address
on stdout, which is useful for scripts that need to do further processing, such
as giving that service account access to a specific PubSub topic.

## Access control
Files are only accessible by members of skia-root@google.com.

## Configuration
The configuration is stored in `config.sh`. If you change the bucket or project
you will have to re-run `init-berglas.sh`.

## Format
All secrets are stored as base64 encoded kubernetes secrets serialized as YAML.

Secrets are stored in a sub-directory in Google Cloud Storage, the name of which
is the name of the cluster they are used in.

We will use the cluster name `etc` as a special cluster name for secrets that
aren't used in k8s, but are still secrets we need easy access to, such as the
`authorized_keys` file we distribute to all the jumphosts.

## Naming
The GKE cluster names as returned from `kubectl config current-context` aren't
the normal names like `skia-public` that are are used to, so there are helper
functions in `config.sh` to translate between common names and the values
returned from `current-context`.

Commit message:

Build and deploy metadata server to jumphosts via Ansible.
The metadata_server_ansible is an application that servers up
OAuth2 Access Tokens from the URL:

   /computeMetadata/v1/instance/service-accounts/default/token

This service is used by Swarming running on all the test machines
in the lab, and the metadata server is run on all the jumphosts.

The metadata_server_ansible application emulates the functioning
of the metadata server on GCP:

  https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview

This has been run and all jumphosts are now running metadata
servers:

  https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/viewer?project=skia-public&advancedFilter=logName%3D%22projects%2Fskia-public%2Flogs%2Fmetadata_server_ansible%22

These are currently unused as the "real" metadata servers are
running on different ports. Once these are shown to be reliable
the bots will be switched over to use these metadata servers
and we can remove all the old push and k3s based metadata servers.

Bug: skia:12063
Change-Id: I573f79e40313df3df3a771a46dac3dc4b7ea79a0
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/438659
Commit-Queue: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Erik Rose <erikrose@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Eric Boren <borenet@google.com>

kube/secrets/README.md, after:

# Secrets

Secrets for all clusters are stored encrypted in Google Cloud Storage with the
keys managed via Google KMS. We use the
[breglas](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/berglas) tool to manage the
encrypted information.

There is a command to copy secrets between cluster directories, and a command to
apply all secrets for a cluster, thus making it easy to spin up a new cluster.

All commands move the secrets through stdin/stdout, except `edit-secrets.sh`
which uses a temporary ramdisk to store the files which gets unmounted
immediately after editing. In all cases secrets never sit on the developers
drive.

The `add-service-account.sh` script emits the full service account email address
on stdout, which is useful for scripts that need to do further processing, such
as giving that service account access to a specific PubSub topic.

## Access control

Files are only accessible by members of skia-root@google.com.

To create local credentials that are usable by bergals you should run:

        gcloud auth application-default login

Also make sure that the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable
isn't set.

## Configuration

The configuration is stored in `config.sh`. If you change the bucket or project
you will have to re-run `init-berglas.sh`.

## Format

All secrets are stored as base64 encoded kubernetes secrets serialized as YAML.

Secrets are stored in a sub-directory in Google Cloud Storage, the name of which
is the name of the cluster they are used in.

We will use the cluster name `etc` as a special cluster name for secrets that
aren't used in k8s, but are still secrets we need easy access to, such as the
`authorized_keys` file we distribute to all the jumphosts.

## Naming

The GKE cluster names as returned from `kubectl config current-context` aren't
the normal names like `skia-public` that are are used to, so there are helper
functions in `config.sh` to translate between common names and the values
returned from `current-context`.
