perf/BACKUPS.md, before:

# Backups

Backups are done via `cockroach dump` for the tables that need to be backed up.

In this case only the Alerts table is backed up.

The remaining tables are not backed up:

- Commits - Is recreated from git as the source of truth on startup if the table is empty.
- Regressions - Regressions for the last 200 commits are automatically built
  by the clustering process.
- All trace data tables can be rebuilt by re-ingesting data from Google Cloud Storage.
- Shortcuts are too numerous to backup and they are only really used
  in Regressions which get rebuilt anyway.

Maybe in the future shourtcuts could have a created/last used time and a subset
of them could be backed up.

To make the system as simple as possible a single script runs once a day, dumps
the Alerts tables from all the databases, and then copies those gzipped backups
to GCS.

We use a docker image that contains `cockroachdb`, `gsutil`, and `gzip`.

## Adding a new database to backup.

Edit `./images/backup/backup.sh` to add the new database name and then:

    $ make push_backup

## Testing backups

To test backups you can manually create a job from the cronjob:

    $ kubectl create job --from=cronjob/perf-cockroachdb-backup-daily cdb-backup-manual-005

And then watch the logs for that job as it runs:

    $ kubectl logs -f job/cdb-backup-manual-005

## Restoring

1. Download and unzip the backup.
1. Edit the file to remove the CREATE statement at the beginning.
1. Port forwared the CockroachDB instance to localhost:
  * `kubectl port-forward perf-cockroachdb-0 26257`
1. Execute the SQL statements inside the backup:
  * `cockroach sql --insecure --host=localhost < alerts-backup.sql `

Commit message:

[perf] Use perf-tool for backups.
Change-Id: I3ef4b68d7d39e583c68a5014e3387f6eca382838
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/313664
Reviewed-by: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Ravi Mistry <rmistry@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Joe Gregorio <jcgregorio@google.com>

perf/BACKUPS.md, after:

# Backups

Backups are done via `perf-tool database backup` for the regressions and alerts.

There are things that are not backed up:

- Commits - Is recreated from git as the source of truth on startup if the table is empty.
- All trace data tables can be rebuilt by re-ingesting data from Google Cloud Storage.
- Shortcuts are too numerous to backup and they are only really used in
  Regressions which get rebuilt anyway. The shortcuts used by Regressions are
  backed up with Regressions.

To make the system as simple as possible a single script runs once a day that
uses `perf-tool database backup` and then copies those gzipped backups to GCS.

We use a docker image that contains `perf-tool` and `gsutil`.

## Adding a new database to backup.

Edit `./images/backup/backup.sh` to add the new config name and then:

    $ make push_backup

## Testing backups

To test backups you can manually create a job from the cronjob:

    $ kubectl create job --from=cronjob/perf-cockroachdb-backup-daily cdb-backup-manual-005

And then watch the logs for that job as it runs:

    $ kubectl logs -f job/cdb-backup-manual-005

## Restoring

- Download the backup files.
- Port forward the CockroachDB instance to localhost:

```
kubectl port-forward perf-cockroachdb-0 26257`
```

- Restore the backups:

```
perf-tool database restore alerts      --config=$config --in=alerts.dat      --connection_string=$connection
perf-tool database restore regressions --config=$config --in=regressions.dat --connection_string=$connection
perf-tool database restore shortcuts   --config=$config --in=regressions.dat --connection_string=$connection
```
