golden/go/tjstore/fs_tjstore/FIRESTORE.md, before:

Storing TryJobs and TryJobResults in Firestore
==============================================

We need to keep TryJob data that we have ingested.

See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d0tOhgx51QOGiSXqTxiwNSlgm1pYHTUSBK3agysX6Iw/edit
for more context.

Schema
------

We should have three Firestore Collections (i.e. tables), one for TryJob, TryJobResult, and Params.
Params is its own table to avoid duplicated data and reduce bandwidth for requests.

	TryJob
		# ID will be SystemID + System
		SystemID     string  # The id of the TryJob in, for example, BuildBucket
		ChangeListID string
		PatchSetID   string
		CRSystem     string  # "github", "gerrit", etc
		CISystem     string  # "buildbucket", etc
		DisplayName  string  # Human readable name of job.
		Updated      time.Time

	TryJobResult
		# ID will be autogenerated
		TryJobID         string  # The SystemID of the TryJob that generated this.
		ChangeListID     string
		PatchSetID       string
		CRSystem         string  # "github", "gerrit", etc
		CISystem         string  # "buildbucket", etc
		Digest           string
		ResultParams     map[string]string
		GroupParamsHash  string # hex-encoded hash linking to Params Table
		OptionsHash      string # hex-encoded hash linking to Params Table

	Params
		# ID will be hex encoded sha256 hash of Map
		Map    map[string]string

Indexing
--------
We should mark the following fields as no-index, to save some index space.
<https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs/query-data/indexing#exemptions>
  - TryJobResult.ResultParams
  - TryJobResult.GroupParamsHash
  - TryJobResult.OptionsHash
  - Params.Map

Currently, all queries can be handled via Firestore's index merging
<https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/query-data/index-overview#taking_advantage_of_index_merging>
because we chain "==" filters together.

Usage
-----
We'll be either looking up TryJobs by id or searching by PatchSetID.

TryJobResults and Params will be a bit more involved, as we'll fetch all TryJobResults by PatchSetID
and then go through all the GroupParamsHash and OptionsHash.  We will fetch the TryJobResults
in parallel, sharded by Digest. We shard based on Digest because that data is essentially random
and evenly distributed. If needed, we could try fetching the Params in parallel or caching them.

Growth Opportunities
-------------------
We could open up the searching to search for just the results based on what TryJob produced them.
Additionally, we could search for all TryJobs on a given CL.
These queries may require additional composite indices.

Commit message:

[gold] Use time in tryjob results
Bug: skia:10399
Change-Id: I7eec72ab18747d01df5ba072a8f61d0d1a660248
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/297736
Reviewed-by: Leandro Lovisolo <lovisolo@google.com>

golden/go/tjstore/fs_tjstore/FIRESTORE.md, after:

Storing TryJobs and TryJobResults in Firestore
==============================================

We need to keep TryJob data that we have ingested.

See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1d0tOhgx51QOGiSXqTxiwNSlgm1pYHTUSBK3agysX6Iw/edit
for more context.

Schema
------

We should have three Firestore Collections (i.e. tables), one for TryJob, TryJobResult, and Params.
Params is its own table to avoid duplicated data and reduce bandwidth for requests.

	TryJob
		# ID will be SystemID + System
		SystemID     string  # The id of the TryJob in, for example, BuildBucket
		ChangeListID string
		PatchSetID   string
		CRSystem     string  # "github", "gerrit", etc
		CISystem     string  # "buildbucket", etc
		DisplayName  string  # Human readable name of job.
		Updated      time.Time

	TryJobResult
		# ID will be autogenerated
		TryJobID         string  # The SystemID of the TryJob that generated this.
		ChangeListID     string
		PatchSetID       string
		CRSystem         string  # "github", "gerrit", etc
		CISystem         string  # "buildbucket", etc
		Digest           string
		ResultParams     map[string]string
		GroupParamsHash  string # hex-encoded hash linking to Params Table
		OptionsHash      string # hex-encoded hash linking to Params Table

	Params
		# ID will be hex encoded sha256 hash of Map
		Map    map[string]string

Indexing
--------
We should mark the following fields as no-index, to save some index space.
<https://cloud.google.com/firestore/docs/query-data/indexing#exemptions>
  - TryJobResult.ResultParams
  - TryJobResult.GroupParamsHash
  - TryJobResult.OptionsHash
  - Params.Map

We need the following complex indices:

Collection ID              | Fields
------------------------------------------------------------------
tjstore_result             | clid: ASC crs: ASC psid: ASC digest: ASC
tjstore_result             | clid: ASC crs: ASC psid: ASC ts: ASC

The first is for fetching results in a sharded fashion. The second is for fetching results
after a certain time.

Usage
-----
We'll be either looking up TryJobs by id or searching by PatchSetID.

TryJobResults and Params will be a bit more involved, as we'll fetch all TryJobResults by PatchSetID
and then go through all the GroupParamsHash and OptionsHash.  We will fetch the TryJobResults
in parallel, sharded by Digest. We shard based on Digest because that data is essentially random
and evenly distributed. If needed, we could try fetching the Params in parallel or caching them.

Growth Opportunities
-------------------
We could open up the searching to search for just the results based on what TryJob produced them.
Additionally, we could search for all TryJobs on a given CL.
These queries may require additional composite indices.
