datahopper/PROD.md, before:

Datahopper Production Manual
============================

Alerts
======

job_metrics
-----------

The [job
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/jobs.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated its job cache for some time.

If there are Task Scheduler alerts, resolve those first.

Otherwise, you should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


bot_coverage_metrics
--------------------

The [bot coverage
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/bot_metrics/bot_metrics.go)
goroutine has not successfully completed a cycle for some time. You should
check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


swarming_task_metrics
--------------------

The [Swarming task
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/swarming_metrics/tasks.go)
goroutine has not successfully queried for Swarming tasks for some time. You should
check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


event_metrics
-------------

The [event
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/go/metrics2/events/events.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated metrics based on event data for some
time. You should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing. Double-check
the instance name to verify which log stream to investigate.


swarming_bot_metrics
--------------------

The [Swarming bot
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/swarming_metrics/bots.go)
goroutine has not successfully queried for Swarming bots for some time. See the
alert for which pool and server is failing. You should check the logs to try
to diagnose what's failing.


firestore_backup_metrics
------------------------

The [Firestore backup
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/firestore_backup_metrics.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated the metric for most recent Firestore
backup for some time.

Try running `gcloud beta firestore operations list --project=skia-firestore `. If
no output or error, check for a GCP Firestore outage.

Otherwise, you should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


firestore_nightly_backup
------------------------

The nightly backup of all Firestore collections in the skia-firestore project
has not succeeded in more than 24 hours. There are several things to check:

 - Run `gcloud beta firestore operations list --project=skia-firestore
   "--filter=metadata.outputUriPrefix~^gs://skia-firestore-backup/everything/" |
   grep -C 14 "endTime: '$(date --utc +%Y-%m-)"` (please modify if it's the
   first of the month).

   - If you see a recent endTime with "operationState: SUCCESSFUL," see below
     for diagnosing issues in Datahopper.
   - If you see a recent endTime with any other operationState, see below for
     diagnosing issues with the Firestore export.
   - If you don't see a recent endTime, see below for diagnosing issues with the
     Kubernetes CronJob.
   - If no output (without filtering through grep) or error, check for a GCP
     Firestore outage.

 - Check the Datahopper logs for any warnings or errors. One likely
   problem is a change in the output of the REST API. See [the
   code](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/firestore_backup_metrics.go)
   for the URL used to retrieve Firestore export operations. You can also run
   Datahopper locally using the --local flag to set up a TokenSource to
   authenticate to this URL. Add logging of the HTTP response.

 - If the export operation is in progress more than an hour after the startTime
   (remember it's UTC), it's probably stuck. You can cancel it with `gcloud beta
   firestore operations cancel --project=skia-firestore <value of name
   field>`. Then manually trigger a new export (see below).

 - If the export operation failed for any other reason, look for an error
   message in the output from `operations list` above. If the error is
   transient, manually trigger a new export (see below). Otherwise, try a Google
   search for the error.

 - Check the logs for the most recent run of the
   [firestore-export-everything-nightly](https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/cronjob/us-central1-a/skia-public/default/firestore-export-everything-nightly?project=skia-public&folder&organizationId=433637338589)
   CronJob. If no recent run, check for misconfiguration. You can update the
   CronJob by running `make push` in the `firestore` directory. The
   configuration for the CronJob is
   [here](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia-public-config/+/master/firestore-export-everything-nightly.yaml).

 - To manually trigger a new export, run `gcloud beta firestore export
   --project=skia-firestore --async gs://skia-firestore-backup/everything/$(date
   --utc +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ)`. Alternatively, run `kubectl create job
   --from=cronjob/firestore-export-everything-nightly
   firestore-export-everything-manual`, wait for the job to finish, then run
   `kubectl delete job firestore-export-everything-manual`.

Commit message:

Change firestore backup alerts to weekly
Change-Id: Ic1703cae4ee8c2b19b798c8067c2306e98548f78
Reviewed-on: https://skia-review.googlesource.com/c/buildbot/+/246158
Reviewed-by: Ravi Mistry <rmistry@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Ben Wagner aka dogben <benjaminwagner@google.com>

datahopper/PROD.md, after:

Datahopper Production Manual
============================

Alerts
======

job_metrics
-----------

The [job
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/jobs.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated its job cache for some time.

If there are Task Scheduler alerts, resolve those first.

Otherwise, you should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


bot_coverage_metrics
--------------------

The [bot coverage
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/bot_metrics/bot_metrics.go)
goroutine has not successfully completed a cycle for some time. You should
check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


swarming_task_metrics
--------------------

The [Swarming task
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/swarming_metrics/tasks.go)
goroutine has not successfully queried for Swarming tasks for some time. You should
check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


event_metrics
-------------

The [event
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/go/metrics2/events/events.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated metrics based on event data for some
time. You should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing. Double-check
the instance name to verify which log stream to investigate.


swarming_bot_metrics
--------------------

The [Swarming bot
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/swarming_metrics/bots.go)
goroutine has not successfully queried for Swarming bots for some time. See the
alert for which pool and server is failing. You should check the logs to try
to diagnose what's failing.


firestore_backup_metrics
------------------------

The [Firestore backup
metrics](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/firestore_backup_metrics.go)
goroutine has not successfully updated the metric for most recent Firestore
backup for some time.

Try running `gcloud beta firestore operations list --project=skia-firestore `. If
no output or error, check for a GCP Firestore outage.

Otherwise, you should check the logs to try to diagnose what's failing.


firestore_weekly_backup
------------------------

The weekly backup of all Firestore collections in the skia-firestore project
has not succeeded in more than 24 hours. There are several things to check:

 - Run `gcloud beta firestore operations list --project=skia-firestore
   "--filter=metadata.outputUriPrefix~^gs://skia-firestore-backup/everything/" |
   grep -C 14 "endTime: '$(date --utc +%Y-%m-)"` (please modify if it's the
   first week of the month).

   - If you see a recent endTime with "operationState: SUCCESSFUL," see below
     for diagnosing issues in Datahopper.
   - If you see a recent endTime with any other operationState, see below for
     diagnosing issues with the Firestore export.
   - If you don't see a recent endTime, see below for diagnosing issues with the
     Kubernetes CronJob.
   - If no output (without filtering through grep) or error, check for a GCP
     Firestore outage.

 - Check the Datahopper logs for any warnings or errors. One likely
   problem is a change in the output of the REST API. See [the
   code](https://skia.googlesource.com/buildbot/+/master/datahopper/go/datahopper/firestore_backup_metrics.go)
   for the URL used to retrieve Firestore export operations. You can also run
   Datahopper locally using the --local flag to set up a TokenSource to
   authenticate to this URL. Add logging of the HTTP response.

 - If the export operation is in progress more than an hour after the startTime
   (remember it's UTC), it's probably stuck. You can cancel it with `gcloud beta
   firestore operations cancel --project=skia-firestore <value of name
   field>`. Then manually trigger a new export (see below).

 - If the export operation failed for any other reason, look for an error
   message in the output from `operations list` above. If the error is
   transient, manually trigger a new export (see below). Otherwise, try a Google
   search for the error.

 - Check the logs for the most recent run of the
   [firestore-export-everything-weekly](https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/cronjob/us-central1-a/skia-public/default/firestore-export-everything-weekly?project=skia-public&folder&organizationId=433637338589)
   CronJob. If no recent run, check for misconfiguration. You can update the
   CronJob by running `make push` in the `firestore` directory. The
   configuration for the CronJob is
   [here](https://skia.googlesource.com/skia-public-config/+/master/firestore-export-everything-weekly.yaml).

 - To manually trigger a new export, run `gcloud beta firestore export
   --project=skia-firestore --async gs://skia-firestore-backup/everything/$(date
   --utc +%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ)`. Alternatively, run `kubectl create job
   --from=cronjob/firestore-export-everything-weekly
   firestore-export-everything-manual`, wait for the job to finish, then run
   `kubectl delete job firestore-export-everything-manual`.
